h1. Examples

In this section you will find a few examples of REST API usage.

# A Windows batch file of "curl" commands, that creates vertices and indices, but does not try to create edges (because of the need to reuse tuple IDs from previous API calls)
# A groovy script that repeats much of what the Windows batch file does, but creates a complete database of vertices, indices *and* edges.
# Some very simple suggested Gremlin commands, printed out by the Groovy script, that you can use to test your reults 

h2. Windows batch file

h3. Pre-requisites

* You'll need Rexster of course, started up as described "here":https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Command-Line
* You'll need to be sure your rexster.xml file enables Neo4j as described "here":https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Rexster-Configuration
* You'll need to install curl.  You get it from "http://curl.haxx.se/download.html":http://curl.haxx.se/download.html.  De-compress the zip to disk, add it to your Windows "path" environment variable and it should run with no difficulty.
* You'll need to install Groovy.  The script uses one Groovy operation <code>groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))"</code> for the purpose of displaying the HTTP Response data in an easily readable fashion.  You get it from "Codehaus":http://groovy.codehaus.org/Download and install it using their "guide":http://groovy.codehaus.org/Getting+Started+Guide.
* You'll need to edit your hosts file C:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc\hosts and add a line for the imaginary server "aHost" used in the scripts below.  The IP address must be the same as the server IP address where you installed Rexster.

h3. Successful Result

When you run the script, you should get results as follows.  You will find the script in the next section.

bc. -----------------------------------------
.     ----[ Evacuate database ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sSX DELETE "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "queryTime": 262.494255
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
. ----[ Recreate index vertices ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -gsX POST "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?class=vertex&type=automatic&keys=[ID]"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "queryTime": 13.161729,
    "results": {
        "name": "vertices",
        "class": "com.tinkerpop.blueprints.pgm.Vertex",
        "type": "automatic"
    }
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
.      ----[ List indices ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": [
        {
            "name": "vertices",
            "class": "com.tinkerpop.blueprints.pgm.Vertex",
            "type": "automatic"
        }
    ],
    "totalSize": 1,
    "queryTime": 0.245282
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
.      ----[ Create deck ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=5&Type=Pack&Name=Deck of Cards" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 137,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Deck of Cards",
        "Type": "Pack",
        "ID": "5"
    },
    "queryTime": 21.224205
}

bc. .
-
--
---
.      ----[ Create suits ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=101&Type=Suit&Name=Diamond" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 138,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Diamond",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "101"
    },
    "queryTime": 14.430605
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=202&Type=Suit&Name=Heart" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 139,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Heart",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "202"
    },
    "queryTime": 12.442643
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=303&Type=Suit&Name=Spade" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 140,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Spade",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "303"
    },
    "queryTime": 15.684675
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=404&Type=Suit&Name=Club" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 141,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Club",
        "Type": "Suit",
        "ID": "404"
    },
    "queryTime": 31.377172
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
---
--
-
.
.
-
--
---
.       ----[ Create aces ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=1&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 142,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "1"
    },
    "queryTime": 11.767697
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=14&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 143,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "14"
    },
    "queryTime": 11.770491
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=27&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 144,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "27"
    },
    "queryTime": 11.557055
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=40&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 145,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "Ace",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "40"
    },
    "queryTime": 13.48272
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
---
--
-
.
.
-
--
---
.      ----[ Create kings ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sd "ID=13&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 146,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "13"
    },
    "queryTime": 12.428674
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=26&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 147,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "26"
    },
    "queryTime": 20.65905
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=39&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 148,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "39"
    },
    "queryTime": 20.145577
}

bc. curl -sd "ID=52&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": {
        "_id": 149,
        "_type": "vertex",
        "Name": "King",
        "Type": "Card",
        "ID": "52"
    },
    "queryTime": 18.390605
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
---
--
-
.
-----------------------------------------
.   ----[ Check an Ace vertex ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=40"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": [
        {
            "_id": 145,
            "_type": "vertex",
            "Name": "Ace",
            "Type": "Card",
            "ID": "40"
        }
    ],
    "totalSize": 1,
    "queryTime": 6.529881
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
.   ----[ Check a King vertex ]----
-----------------------------------------
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=52"
{
    "version": "0.4-SNAPSHOT",
    "results": [
        {
            "_id": 149,
            "_type": "vertex",
            "Name": "King",
            "Type": "Card",
            "ID": "52"
        }
    ],
    "totalSize": 1,
    "queryTime": 3.876749
}

bc. -----------------------------------------
* * * *  Some Notes on the Above  * * * *
-----------------------------------------
*
* This script creates vertices and indices, but
* does not try to create edges (because of the
* need to reuse tuple IDs from previous API calls).
*
* Most of the HTTP Response printouts above have a
* field {"results": {"_id": x, ...}.  Creating
* edges requires capturing two returned _id fields
* from created vertices and POSTing them as the
* _outV and _inV fields of an edge creation command,
* a task only a Microsoft zionist would want to
* attempt with MS-DOS batch commands.
*
* Instead please see the second example that uses a
* Groovy script to do all of the above and more (and,
* it is platform-independant, of course).
*
-----------------------------------------
*
* Created by Martin "Hasan" Bramwell as a miniscule
* contribution to the wonderful Tinkerpop tool set:
* http://www.tinkerpop.com/
*
* You should find a link to the latest version of
* this script somewhere on this page here:
* https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Basic-REST-API
*
-----------------------------------------
* EOF

See the script section below to be get the code for the above.

h3. Script

You may find you can *not* cut'n paste the following code and run it as a Windows command line batch file.  I found, because "end of line" delimiter issues, I had to paste it first into WordPad, and then save it as a plain text file with the "*.bat" extension.  If you save it as deckDemo.bat, and have confirmed that all the pre-requisites are working correctly then typing deckDemo.bat on the windows command line should be sufficient, to get the same results as above. 

bc. @echo off


bc. echo * 
echo -----------------------------------------
echo .     ----[ Evacuate database ]----
echo -----------------------------------------

bc. echo curl -sSX DELETE "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample"
curl -sSX DELETE "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more

bc. echo -----------------------------------------
echo . ----[ Recreate index vertices ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -gsX POST "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?class=vertex&type=automatic&keys=[ID]"
curl -gsX POST "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?class=vertex&type=automatic&keys=[ID]" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more

bc. echo -----------------------------------------
echo .      ----[ List indices ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices"
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more

bc. echo -----------------------------------------
echo .      ----[ Create deck ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sd "ID=5&Type=Pack&Name=Deck of Cards" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=5&Type=Pack&Name=Deck of Cards" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more

bc. echo .
echo -
echo --
echo ---
echo .      ----[ Create suits ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sd "ID=101&Type=Suit&Name=Diamond" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=101&Type=Suit&Name=Diamond" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=202&Type=Suit&Name=Heart" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=202&Type=Suit&Name=Heart" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=303&Type=Suit&Name=Spade" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=303&Type=Suit&Name=Spade" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=404&Type=Suit&Name=Club" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=404&Type=Suit&Name=Club" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo -----------------------------------------
echo ---
echo --
echo -
echo .

bc. echo .
echo -
echo --
echo ---
echo .       ----[ Create aces ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sd "ID=1&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=1&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=14&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=14&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=27&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=27&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=40&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=40&Type=Card&Name=Ace" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo -----------------------------------------
echo ---
echo --
echo -
echo .

bc. echo .
echo -
echo --
echo ---
echo .      ----[ Create kings ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sd "ID=13&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=13&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=26&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=26&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=39&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=39&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo curl -sd "ID=52&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/"
curl -sd "ID=52&Type=Card&Name=King" "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
echo -----------------------------------------
echo ---
echo --
echo -
echo .

bc. echo -----------------------------------------
echo .   ----[ Check an Ace vertex ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=40"
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=40" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more
rem curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices/" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more

bc. echo -----------------------------------------
echo .   ----[ Check a King vertex ]----
echo -----------------------------------------
echo curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=52"
curl -sX GET "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/indices/vertices?key=ID&value=52" | groovy -e "println(groovy.json.JsonOutput.prettyPrint(System.in.text))" | more

bc. echo -----------------------------------------
echo * * * *  Some Notes on the Above  * * * *
echo -----------------------------------------
echo * 
echo * This script creates vertices and indices, but 
echo * does not try to create edges (because of the 
echo * need to reuse tuple IDs from previous API calls).
echo *   
echo * Most of the HTTP Response printouts above have a 
echo * field {"results": {"_id": x, ...}.  Creating
echo * edges requires capturing two returned _id fields
echo * from created vertices and POSTing them as the 
echo * _outV and _inV fields of an edge creation command,
echo * a task only a Microsoft zionist would want to 
echo * attempt with MS-DOS batch commands.
echo * 
echo * Instead please see the second example that uses a
echo * Groovy script to do all of the above and more (and, 
echo * it is platform-independant, of course).
echo * 
echo -----------------------------------------
echo * 
echo * Created by Martin "Hasan" Bramwell as a miniscule
echo * contribution to the wonderful Tinkerpop tool set:
echo * http://www.tinkerpop.com/
echo * 
echo * You should find a link to the latest version of  
echo * this script somewhere on this page here:
echo * https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Basic-REST-API
echo * 
echo -----------------------------------------
echo * EOF

h2. Groovy script

h3. Pre-requisites

This script has the same pre-requisites as the Windows batch file above.


h3. Successful Result

When you run the script, you should get results like this:

<pre>
<code>
-----------------------------------------
       ----[ Test connection ]----
-----------------------------------------
Got request status 200 from http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/
-----------------------------------------
      ----[ Evacuate database ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [version:0.4-SNAPSHOT, queryTime:261.80115]
-----------------------------------------
----[ Recreate the index "vertices" ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [name:vertices, type:automatic]
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ List indices ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [[name:vertices, type:automatic]]
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ Create suits ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [_id:460, _type:vertex, Name:Spades, UCFrag:160, UCBlack:♠, Type:Suit, ID:100, UCWhite:♤]
Response : [_id:461, _type:vertex, Name:Hearts, UCFrag:176, UCBlack:♥, Type:Suit, ID:200, UCWhite:♡]
Response : [_id:462, _type:vertex, Name:Diamonds, UCFrag:192, UCBlack:♦, Type:Suit, ID:300, UCWhite:♢]
Response : [_id:463, _type:vertex, Name:Clubs, UCFrag:208, UCBlack:♣, Type:Suit, ID:400, UCWhite:♧]
-----------------------------------------
  ----[ Create 56 card deck ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [_id:464, _type:vertex, Name:Minor Arcana Tarot, UCFrag:126976, Type:Deck, Id:1]
-----------------------------------------
  ----[ Create 52 card deck ]----
-----------------------------------------
Response : [_id:465, _type:vertex, Name:Western, UCFrag:126976, Type:Deck, Id:2]
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ Create cards ]----
-----------------------------------------
The Ace of Spades has value :
 -- 1 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 1 in the Western deck.
The Two of Spades has value :
 -- 2 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 2 in the Western deck.
The Three of Spades has value :
 -- 3 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 3 in the Western deck.
The Four of Spades has value :
 -- 4 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 4 in the Western deck.
The Five of Spades has value :
 -- 5 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 5 in the Western deck.
The Six of Spades has value :
 -- 6 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 6 in the Western deck.
The Seven of Spades has value :
 -- 7 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 7 in the Western deck.
The Eight of Spades has value :
 -- 8 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 8 in the Western deck.
The Nine of Spades has value :
 -- 9 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 9 in the Western deck.
             :
             :
             :
             :
             :
             :
The Ten of Clubs has value :
 -- 10 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 10 in the Western deck.
The Jack of Clubs has value :
 -- 11 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 11 in the Western deck.
The Knight of Clubs has value :
 -- 12 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
The Queen of Clubs has value :
 -- 13 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 12 in the Western deck.
The King of Clubs has value :
 -- 14 in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and
 -- 13 in the Western deck.
-----------------------------------------
        ----[ Finished ]----
-----------------------------------------
-----------------------------------------
Now running the following five commands on Gremlin
should obtain the results indicated below:

- - - - - - -

g.V{it.Name=="Western"}
western = g.v(253)  //  Be sure to use the same ID as returned by the preceding command.
western.Type
cardNames = []
cardValues = []
western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(4).Name >> cardNames
western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(6).Val >> cardValues
itrCards = cardNames.iterator();ii = 0;while(itrCards.hasNext()){println "The " + itrCards.next() + " of Spades has value " + cardValues.get(ii++) }

- - - - - - -

/*
 *
Gremlin 1.1-SNAPSHOT
         \,,,/
         (o o)
-----oOOo-(_)-oOOo-----
gremlin>  g.V{it.Name=="Western"}
==>v[ 253]

gremlin>  western = g.v(253)
==>v[ 253]

gremlin>  cardNames = []
==>

gremlin>  cardValues = []
==>

gremlin>  western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(4).Name >> cardNames
==>King
==>Queen
==>Jack
==>Ten
==>Nine
==>Eight
==>Seven
==>Six
==>Five
==>Four
==>Three
==>Two
==>Ace

gremlin>  western.inE{it.label=="ofDeck"}.outV.outE{it.label=="ofSuit"}.inV{it.Name=="Hearts"}.back(6).Val >> cardValues
==>13
==>12
==>11
==>10
==>9
==>8
==>7
==>6
==>5
==>4
==>3
==>2
==>1

gremlin>  itrCards = cardNames.iterator();ii = 0;while(itrCards.hasNext()){println "The " + itrCards.next() + " of Spades has value " + cardValues.get(ii++) }
==>The King of Spades has value 13
==>The Queen of Spades has value 12
==>The Jack of Spades has value 11
==>The Ten of Spades has value 10
==>The Nine of Spades has value 9
==>The Eight of Spades has value 8
==>The Seven of Spades has value 7
==>The Six of Spades has value 6
==>The Five of Spades has value 5
==>The Four of Spades has value 4
==>The Three of Spades has value 3
==>The Two of Spades has value 2
==>The Ace of Spades has value 1
gremlin>
*
*/
  
</code>
</pre>


See the script section below to be get the code for the above.

h3. Script

You may *not* be able to cut'n paste the following code and run it as a Windows command line batch file.  I found, because "end of line" delimiter issues, I had to paste it first into WordPad, and then save it as a plain text file with the "*.bat" extension.

bc. @Grab("net.sf.json-lib:json-lib:2.4:jdk15")
@Grab(group="org.codehaus.groovy.modules.http-builder",module="http-builder", version="0.5.1" )

bc. import groovyx.net.http.RESTClient
import groovyx.net.http.ParserRegistry

bc. import groovy.json.JsonOutput
import groovy.util.slurpersupport.GPathResult
import static groovyx.net.http.ContentType.JSON
import static groovyx.net.http.ContentType.URLENC

bc. import java.lang.Character;
 
bc. /*
 * This is a Groovy demo for some of the REST calls to the Neo4j Graph Database
 * through reXster.  The full list of calls can be found here:
 *    https://github.com/tinkerpop/rexster/wiki/Basic-REST-API
 * 
 * It stores a crude ontology of playing cards from data taken (manually) from Wikipedia here
 *    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Playing_cards
 *   
 * Decks, Suits and Cards are stored as vertices
 * 
 * Card values are a property of the Edge which relates a Card to a Deck
 * 
 * Each Card is related to one of the Suits by an Edge
 *  
 */

bc. /*
 * Some basic definitions
 */

bc. //  Identification of the host and database proxy interface
def urlGraphDatabase = "http://aHost:8182/neo4jsample/"
neo4jsample = new RESTClient( urlGraphDatabase )

bc. // Define Suits 
def uniCodeBaseNumber = 126976
def suits = 
	[
		  [Name:"Spades", Id:100, UCBlack:(("\u2660")), UCWhite:(("\u2664")), UCFrag:160]
		, [Name:"Hearts", Id:200, UCBlack:(("\u2665")), UCWhite:(("\u2661")), UCFrag:176]
		, [Name:"Diamonds", Id:300, UCBlack:(("\u2666")), UCWhite:(("\u2662")), UCFrag:192]
		, [Name:"Clubs", Id:400, UCBlack:(("\u2663")), UCWhite:(("\u2667")), UCFrag:208]
	]
	
bc. // Define two different Decks of Cards
def allCardNames = ["Ace", "Two", "Three", "Four", "Five", "Six", "Seven", "Eight", "Nine", "Ten", "Jack", "Knight", "Queen", "King"]

bc. def westernCardNames = allCardNames.clone()
westernCardNames.remove("Knight")

bc. // We get this back from each REST command
def REST_Response

bc. //  Prettification stuff
def topFrm = "-----------------------------------------\n"
def botFrm = "\n-----------------------------------------"

bc. /*
 * This shows that reXster understands the HEAD command of HTTP
 * Obviously it is far from adequate for any serious system 
 */
println(topFrm + "       ----[ Test connection ]----     " + botFrm)
try {
    REST_Response = neo4jsample.head (path : "indices")
	println "Got request status ${REST_Response.status} from ${urlGraphDatabase}"
} catch( ex ) { 
	println "Got request status ${ex.response} from ${urlGraphDatabase}"
	// The exception is used for flow control but has access to the response as well:
	assert ex.response.status == 404
}

bc. /*
 * This shows that an HTTP DELETE on the database itself, flushes the toilet on everything
 */
println(topFrm + "      ----[ Evacuate database ]----     " + botFrm)
REST_Response = neo4jsample.delete( path : "" )
assert REST_Response.status != "200", "Database evacuation failed ${REST_Response.status}"
println ("Response : " + REST_Response.data)


bc. /*
 * Having flushed everything we need to create an index
 * Shows one use of and HTTP POST on reXster
 */
println(topFrm + "----[ Recreate the index \"vertices\" ]----" + botFrm)
REST_Response = neo4jsample.post( 
	   path : "indices/vertices"
	, query : ["class":"vertex", "type":"automatic", "keys":"[ID]"]
)
println ("Response : " + REST_Response.data.results)

bc. /*
 * This uses an HTTP GET to verify that the index was created correctly
 */
println(topFrm + "        ----[ List indices ]----" + botFrm)
REST_Response = neo4jsample.get( path : "indices")
println ("Response : " + REST_Response.data.results)

bc. 
/*
 * Using POST again, we loop through the Suits creating a vertex for each one.
 * Note that, since we will need to refer back to them later we MUST record
 * their database unique ID codes, obtained from the response 
 */
println(topFrm + "        ----[ Create suits ]----" + botFrm)
def mapSuits = [:]
def spec = [:]
def pk = -1
suits.each { suit ->
	spec = [ID:suit["Id"], Type:"Suit", Name:suit["Name"], UCBlack:suit["UCBlack"], UCWhite:suit["UCWhite"], UCFrag:suit["UCFrag"]]
	REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(path : "vertices", query : spec)
	pk = REST_Response.data.results._id   //  We extract the unique ID ... 
	mapSuits.put(suit["Name"], [ID:suit["Id"], PK:(pk)])  //  ... and remember it here
	println ("Response : " + REST_Response.data.results)
}

bc. /*
 * Here we POST more vertices, one for each of the two decks we will define.
 */
println(topFrm + "  ----[ Create 56 card deck ]----" + botFrm)
def deckMAT = [Name:"Minor Arcana Tarot", Id:1, Type:"Deck", UCFrag:126976]
REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(path : "vertices", query : (deckMAT))
println ("Response : " + REST_Response.data.results)
def idMAT = REST_Response.data.results._id

bc. 
println(topFrm + "  ----[ Create 52 card deck ]----" + botFrm)
def deckWest = [Name:"Western", Id:2, Type:"Deck", UCFrag:126976]
REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(path : "vertices", query : (deckWest))
println ("Response : " + REST_Response.data.results)
def idWest = REST_Response.data.results._id

bc. 
/*
* The final job is to record all 56 playing cards and relate them by integer value to our
* two decks
*/
println(topFrm + "        ----[ Create cards ]----" + botFrm)
def cardsMAT = [:]
def cardsWestern = [:]
def fk = -1
def numCard = numUC = 0
def valMAT = valWest = 1
suits.each { suit ->
	fk = mapSuits[suit["Name"]]["PK"]
	fragUC = suit["UCFrag"]
	allCardNames.each { card ->
		numCard = valMAT + suit["Id"]
		numUC = uniCodeBaseNumber + fragUC + valMAT
		
bc. 		REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(
			   path : "vertices"
			, query : [   ID:(numCard), Type:"Card", Name:card, UCCode:(numUC)  ]
		)
		pk = REST_Response.data.results._id
		
bc. 		//  Relate the card to its Suit
		REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(
			   path : "edges"
			, query : [  _outV:(pk), _label:"ofSuit", _inV:(fk)  ]
		)
		
bc. //  Stuff the card into a local map in case we want to reuse its properties later.
//		spec = [ID:(numCard), Type:"Card", Name:(card), PK:(pk), UCCode:(numUC), SuitFK:(fk)] 
//		cardsMAT.put("${card} of ${suit["Name"]}",spec)

bc. 		
		println ("The ${card} of ${suit["Name"]} has value :")
		

bc. 		//  Relate the card to 56 card deck
		REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(
			  path : "edges"
			, query : [  _outV:(pk), _label:"ofDeck", _inV:(idMAT), Val:valMAT  ]
		)
		println (" -- ${valMAT} in the Major Arcana Tarot deck and ")
		

bc. 		//  Relate the card to 52 card deck
		if (!card.equals("Knight")) {
			
bc. 			REST_Response = neo4jsample.post(
				   path : "edges"
				, query : [  _outV:(pk), _label:"ofDeck", _inV:(idWest), Val:valWest  ]
			)
			println (" -- ${valWest} in the Western deck.")
			valWest++
	    }
		
bc. 		valMAT++
	}
	valMAT = 1
	valWest = 1
}

bc. println(topFrm + "        ----[ Finished ]----" + botFrm + botFrm)
println("Now running the following five commands on Gremlin ")
println("should obtain the results indicated below:")
println("")
println("- - - - - - - ")
println("")
println("g.V{it.Name==\"Western\"}")
println("western = g.v(253)  //  Be sure to use the same ID as returned by the preceding command.")
println("western.Type")
println("cardNames = []")
println("cardValues = []")
println("western.inE{it.label==\"ofDeck\"}.outV.outE{it.label==\"ofSuit\"}.inV{it.Name==\"Hearts\"}.back(4).Name >> cardNames")
println("western.inE{it.label==\"ofDeck\"}.outV.outE{it.label==\"ofSuit\"}.inV{it.Name==\"Hearts\"}.back(6).Val >> cardValues")
println("itrCards = cardNames.iterator();ii = 0;while(itrCards.hasNext()){println \"The \" + itrCards.next() + \" of Spades has value \" + cardValues.get(ii++) }")
println("")
println("- - - - - - - ")
println("")
println("/*")
println(" *")
println("Gremlin 1.1-SNAPSHOT")
println("         \\,,,/")
println("         (o o)")
println("-----oOOo-(_)-oOOo-----")
println("gremlin>  g.V{it.Name==\"Western\"}")
println("==>v[253]")
println("")
println("gremlin>  western = g.v(253)")
println("==>v[253]")
println("")
println("gremlin>  cardNames = []")
println("==>")
println("")
println("gremlin>  cardValues = []")
println("==>")
println("")
println("gremlin>  western.inE{it.label==\"ofDeck\"}.outV.outE{it.label==\"ofSuit\"}.inV{it.Name==\"Hearts\"}.back(4).Name >> cardNames")
println("==>King")
println("==>Queen")
println("==>Jack")
println("==>Ten")
println("==>Nine")
println("==>Eight")
println("==>Seven")
println("==>Six")
println("==>Five")
println("==>Four")
println("==>Three")
println("==>Two")
println("==>Ace")
println("")
println("gremlin>  western.inE{it.label==\"ofDeck\"}.outV.outE{it.label==\"ofSuit\"}.inV{it.Name==\"Hearts\"}.back(6).Val >> cardValues")
println("==>13")
println("==>12")
println("==>11")
println("==>10")
println("==>9")
println("==>8")
println("==>7")
println("==>6")
println("==>5")
println("==>4")
println("==>3")
println("==>2")
println("==>1")
println("")
println("gremlin>  itrCards = cardNames.iterator();ii = 0;while(itrCards.hasNext()){println \"The \" + itrCards.next() + \" of Spades has value \" + cardValues.get(ii++) }")
println("==>The King of Spades has value 13")
println("==>The Queen of Spades has value 12")
println("==>The Jack of Spades has value 11")
println("==>The Ten of Spades has value 10")
println("==>The Nine of Spades has value 9")
println("==>The Eight of Spades has value 8")
println("==>The Seven of Spades has value 7")
println("==>The Six of Spades has value 6")
println("==>The Five of Spades has value 5")
println("==>The Four of Spades has value 4")
println("==>The Three of Spades has value 3")
println("==>The Two of Spades has value 2")
println("==>The Ace of Spades has value 1")
println("gremlin>")

bc. 		 
println("*")
println("*/")



bc. // ---------------------------------- o 0 o ---------------------------------------